---
title: Project Development Log 1: Collaboration and Brainstorming 
date: "2019-09-20" 
header:
  caption: "icon is History by Made from the Noun Project"
  image: "devlog header 1.png"
---
#### [Marissa](https://https://marissafoley.netlify.com/) and I are setting out to co-develop a digital guerrilla public history project in the streets of Ottawa. These devlogs will document the *~ creative process ~* in all its excitement, chaos, delight, frustration, and messiness. 

**What we want to do:**
a visual art GPS exhibit OR augmented reality place-based art exhibit - 

*associate each street with a piece of artwork that visually tells the story of or offers an alternative to a street name. When someone submits a route for places in the city, the streets that are a part of that route & their associated artworks become a personalized curated visual art exhibit they can experience as they walk their chosen route.*

(all cred to [Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com) for this very cool jumping off point for our project)

AR option: the street sign itself triggers an artwork to pop up on a device’s screen   

**Goals:** 
offer people who are exploring the streets of Ottawa 
- a visual counter-narrative to Ottawa’s history as it’s presented in street names (often white, male, colonial) 
- a different way to experience the streets as you’re walking through them
- an alternative way to identify and historicize the streets than the names 

**Potential geographic focus:** 
ByWard Market - street names in the Byward Market include William, George, Cumberland, St. Partick, York, Daly, Stewart, Murray… 

potential theme in the Bywayd Market: bringing feminine aesthetics to a historically (and presently) male-dominated space 

*fun fact: if you search “Byward Market” in the National Gallery’s online collection, eight results come up. All of the artworks are by men.* 

**Components:** 
- (sourced from open collections? created by us? public call for artwork? a combination of all three?) 


- map 
    - google maps code – GitHub (range queries, point A to point b
    - geotagging 
        - think Echoes but with visual images
        - QGIS plugin? 
    - augmented reality? 

- capacity for participation/submissions by other people

**Interface options**
- app/mobile-friendly site (designed to be used outside, on the streets, as you move through them)

- website (designed to be used at home, in the ‘planning’ phase of a trip – hopefully sparking reflection later on when they are in the place in question 

- ebook or zine developed alongside the exhibit – think of it as an exhibition text 

**Concerns:** 
-	what are the rights of use of images in, for example, the National Gallery of Canada? 
-	ethics of appropriating another artist’s work to fit our own narrative? 
-	if we make a call for submissions from local artists, how do we approach the issue of compensation? As we’re not in a position to offer financial payment for their labour, how do we approach this? 
