---
title: Development Log 1
date: "2019-09-10" 
header:
  caption: "icon is History by Made from the Noun Project"
  image: "devlog header 1.png"
--- 
# Collaboration and Brainstorming 
## [Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com/) and I are setting out to co-develop a digital guerrilla public history project on the streets of Ottawa. These devlogs will document the creative process in all of its excitement, chaos, delight, frustration, and messiness.  

### What we want to do
a visual art GPS exhibit OR augmented reality place-based art exhibit 

*associate each street with a piece of artwork that visually tells the story of or offers an alternative to a street name. When someone submits a route for places in the city, the streets that are a part of that route & their associated artworks become a personalized curated visual art exhibit they can experience as they walk their chosen route.*

(all cred to [Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com) for this very cool jumping off point for our project)

AR option: the street sign itself triggers an artwork to pop up on a device’s screen   

### Goals
offer people who are exploring the streets of Ottawa 

this will involve: 

a visual counter-narrative to Ottawa’s history as it’s presented in street names (often white, male, colonial) 

a different way to experience the streets as you’re walking through them

an alternative way to identify and historicize the streets than the names 

**Potential geographic focus:** 
ByWard Market - street names in the Byward Market include William, George, Cumberland, St. Partick, York, Daly, Stewart, Murray… 

potential theme in the Bywayd Market: bringing feminine aesthetics to a historically (and presently) male-dominated space 

*fun fact: if you search “Byward Market” in the National Gallery’s online collection, [ten results come up](https://www.gallery.ca/collection/search-the-collection?search_api_views_fulltext=byward%20market%20&sort_by=search_api_relevance). All of the artworks are by men.* 

**Components:** 
*artworks* 
(sourced from open collections? created by us? public call for artwork? a combination of all three?) 

*map* 
google maps code – GitHub (range queries, point A to point b)

geotagging 

think [Echoes](https://echoes.xyz/) but with visual images

QGIS plugin? 

augmented reality? 

*capacity for participation/submissions by other people*

**Interface options**
app/mobile-friendly site (designed to be used outside, on the streets, as you move through them)

website (designed to be used at home, in the ‘planning’ phase of a trip – hopefully sparking reflection later on when they are in the place in question 

ebook or zine developed alongside the exhibit – think of it as an exhibition text 

**Concerns:** 
what are the rights of use of images in, for example, the National Gallery of Canada? 

ethics of appropriating another artist’s work to fit our own narrative? 

if we make a call for submissions from local artists, how do we approach the issue of compensation? As we’re not in a position to offer financial payment for their labour, how do we approach this? 
