---
title: Development Log 2
date: "2019-10-06" 
header:
  caption: "icon is Art Gallery by Kantor Tegalsari from the Noun Project"
  image: "devlog2header.png"
--- 
# Ideas Taking Shape 
## [Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com/) and I are setting out to co-develop a digital guerrilla public history project on the streets of Ottawa. These devlogs will document the creative process in all of its excitement, chaos, delight, frustration, and messiness.  

While our original idea for this project was to bring an art gallery-type experience into the streets of Ottawa, we ran into some roadblocks in the image recognition capacities of augmented reality (AR). AR tech recognizes images more easily that text, so our plan to use street signs as prompts seemed out of reach. 
So we re-evaluated what content we wanted to use as a starting point, and what stories we wanted to explore. 

### We knew that we still wanted to: 
+ reshape the way people move through and experience a space 
+ present narratives that may challenge or expand people's interpretation of historical content 
+ use visual art as a means of communicating our message 
+ play with AR

With this in mind, we decided to move indoors, to one of Ottawa's art galleries. We visited the Ottwa Art Gallery and the National Gallery of Canada to see what artworks in their permanant collections inspired us. 

The Group of Seven paintings stood out to us as artworks that would be really interesting to engage with for a few reasons. The Group of Seven's paintings are iconic in their representations of Canadian landscape, and further, Canadian identity and nation-building. Historical paintings of the Canadian landscape (the Group of Seven was active as a collective between 1920-1933) also offer us a point of entry to talk about a pressing issue that we now face, almost a century later - environmental degredation and the climate crisis.  

### So here's our current plan:  
+ historicize Group of Seven paintings through a juxtaposition and AR overlay with modern images of environmental threat and destruction
+ re-imagine and challenge the role of the museum visitor as a passive receiver of knowledge

### Other projects that inspire us:
+ [The Exhibitionist] (https://www.theexhibitionist.org/) - uncomfortable art tours focus on how major institutions came into being against a backdrop of imperialism. 
+ [MoMAR](https://momar.gallery/exhibitions/werefromtheinternet.html) - an unauthorized gallery concept aimed at democratizing physical exhibition spaces, museums, and the curation of art within them.

### AR tools we are considering to build this project: 
+ [ARIS] (https://fielddaylab.org/make/aris/) 
+ Unity [via The Programming Historian] (https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/creating-mobile-augmented-reality-experiences-in-unity)
+ Unity [via MoMAR's Open Source docs] (https://momar.gallery/opensource.html)
