---
title: Development Log 8
summary: The Artwork
date: "2019-12-04" 
header:
  caption: "icon is Art Gallery by Kantor Tegalsari from the Noun Project"
  image: "devlog8.png"
--- 
# The Artwork
*[Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com/) and I are setting out to co-develop a digital guerrilla public history project. These devlogs will document the creative process in all of its excitement, chaos, delight, frustration, and messiness.*

The main questions we considered when we chose which Group of Seven paintings to use from the National Gallery's collection were the following:  

+ does this painting inspire us in this project's context?
+ are a variety of artists being represented, including those who were not official members of the Group of Seven (Tom Thomson, Emily Carr)? 
+ what is the painting's location the gallery in relation to other pieces we're considering? 

When it came time to develop our interventions, we approached each piece independently. We wanted each work to be able to act as a stand-alone piece. At the same time, we wanted them to work together to talk about different dimensions of the climate crisis and human intervention on the Canadian landscape. 

It's worth noting that the following are the thoughts and intentions that went into the in the creation of these interventions. However, within the app the images will be presented without our interpretation. We hope the images will incite discussion and reflection, and we invite viewers to make their own meanings as they interact with them. 

List of artworks & interventions: 

**Emily Carr, *Heina*, 1928, oil on canvas, National Gallery of Canada.** 

**Intervention: Pipeline construction** 

+ this intervention will emphasize the colonial undertones alredy present in Carr's painting of Indigenous imagery by juxtaposing the peaceful scene with the modern colonial project of pipeines, especially the controversy of pipelines running through Indigenous lands. 

**Lawren S. Harris, *North Shore, Baffin Island II*, 1931, oil on canvas, National Gallery of Canada**

**Intervention: Boat and Disappearing Ice Caps** 

+ the AR on this painting will interact with the painting located beside it in the gallery (A.Y. Jackson's *The “Beothic” at Bache Post, Ellesmere Island*, 1929). The *Beothic* is imposed on Harris's landscape to bring the stories of transportation and coal to the foreground, as the ice caps melt in the background. 

**Tom Thomson, *The Jack Pine*, 1916-17**

**Intervention: Pine Beetles** 

+ this intervention will invite the viewer to consider the results of global human movement and the ecological imbalances that come with the pests we carry 

**Arthur Lismer, *A September Gale, Georgian Bay*, 1921**

**Intervention: Plastic Bags** 

+ in this image we will ask, what are some of the places our single-use plastic ends up? 

**Franz Johnston, *Fire-Swept, Algoma*, 1920**

**Intervention: More Fires**

+ forest fires, while healthy for an ecosystem in moderation, have become larger, last longer & are more distructive than ever before, as indicated by the ongoing fires we will place on this originally post-fire painting. Not only does this have a dire ecological impact, but it also leads to displaced people and communities. 

**F.H. Varley, *Stormy Weather, Georgian Bay*, 1921**

**Intervention: Industrial Pollution**

+ this intervention will call attention to the environmental effects of industrial pollution as they relate to human recreation, as indicated by the "no swimming" sign. 
