---
title: Development Log 9
summary: Stumbling at the Finish Line
date: "2019-12-05" 
header:
  caption: "icon is Art Gallery by Kantor Tegalsari from the Noun Project"
  image: "devlog9.png"
--- 
# Stumbling at the Finish Line 
*[Marissa](https://marissafoley.netlify.com/) and I are setting out to co-develop a digital guerrilla public history project. These devlogs will document the creative process in all of its excitement, chaos, delight, frustration, and messiness.*

We thought we'd done it - we were happy with our interventions we created, we successfully uploaded our trigger images to Vuforia. 

We uploaded one trigger image & intervention to ARIS, and tested the plaque. To our delight, the app recognized the trigger image even if we pulled up the painting on our computer screens, which really opens up the possibilities in terms of access to our content - it means visitors won't be required to physically visit the painting at the gallery to explore the interventions. 

After our successful test, we uploaded the rest of the content into ARIS. 

Then - 

the app started to crash immediately when it recgnized one of our triggers. The good news is that it means all our triggers work. The app is fine until the moment it recognizes a trigger image. When it does, it quits immediately. 

In the mean time, we built the rest of the structure of the ARIS game. To keep the game as simple and experience-based as possible, we want to have minimal other distractions on the interface. It's currently set so the app automatically opens in the AR scanner, and the user can navigate to the three other tabs - a map of the gallery showing where the trigger images are located, a list of the artworks that are trigger images, and the game credits. Once it's developed, we can also add an external link to the project's website. 

Overall, we're really happy with how everything works and functions except for the main thing we want it to do. 

We have posted on the ARIS/Field Day Labs forums, along with another user who has had a similar problem. 

### **10/12/19** 
**Update** 

Thinking it may be an issue with file size/memory, we tried to build a new version (V2) with smaller images 

1. made all trigger images smaller (<200 kb)
2. made all intervention images smaller (<200 kb)
3. uploaded one intervention image and made plaque
test using 'SCANNER': crash upon trigger recognition
test using 'AUGMENTED': crash upon trigger recognition

When we tested ARIS in eariler moments in this project, we tested with only one image in our trigger database. 

In Version 3 we used the small images, and created our trigger database using only one instead of all six: 
1. uploaded only one image to trigger database (Johnston)
2. uploaded one intervention image and made plaque 
test using 'SCANNER': crash upon trigger recognition
test using 'AUGMENTED': crash upon trigger recognition

So this suggests that maybe it's not just a memory issue? 

To be continued... 
